got thank you good evening and welcome
to the Pennsylvania County school board
meeting for February the 13th 20124 we
ask Miss Hancock to do a roll call First
Mr bital pres Mr Henderson pres m m pres
Mr Moon Mr sh pres Mr here Mr pres um
we're going to recess from closed
meeting we're going to have to go back
into close once this main part is over
with so I need a motion to recess from
close
please so
move second roll call
please Mr fitgerald yes Mr Henderson yes
m m i Mr Mr sh yes Mr Mr Ms yes Mr do uh
we have motions coming out a close
please have a motion to for exposion
with offer of placement at the regional
alternative school for continuing
Educational Services and return to chol
at the beginning of the 2024 2025 school
year so
move any
discussion can roll call please Mr
Fitzgerald yes Mr Henderson yes M Merck
yes Mr Moon yes Mr Shields yes Mr Mills
yes Mr dos yes we have a motion to
approve the release of compulsory
attendance for three students based on
religious
exemption make the motion second a
motion any
discussion roll call please Mr
Fitzgerald yes Mr Henderson yes M Merck
yes Mr Moon yes Mr Shields yes Mr Mills
yes Mr dos yes we have a motion to
approve a waiver of Schoolboard policy
gb- PC retirement from Miss Stacy Oaks
to allow her to retire under the early
retirement incentive program of August
2024 so
move any other discussion roll call
please Mr Fitzgerald yes Mr Henderson
yes M mck yes Mr Moon yes Mr Shields yes
Mr Mills yes Mr do yes we have a motion
to approve requests from Mr John wax
staff and Miss wenderland Valencia to
wave the limitations as stipulated in
Schoolboard policy G BCB fb- PC
voluntary donation of sick leave days to
remove the maximum number of donated
sick leave days that may be used under
this policy and allow them to use an
additional 20 day 20 voluntary donated
sick Le days for the 2023 2024 school
year so move Mark second have a motion
and a second any
discussion roll call please Mr
Fitzgerald yes Mr Henderson yes M mck
yes Mr Moon yes Mr Shields yes Mr Mills
yes Mr do yes we have a motion to
approve the Personnel changes for
February 13 2024 as
presented so move second any discussion
roll call Mr Fitzgerald yes Mr Henderson
yes M Mar yes Mr Moon yes Mr Shields yes
Mr Ms yes Mr do yes
Dr Jones I think you have some
recommendations for us yes sir I do Mr
doson members of the school board I
would like to recommend this evening uh
the new principal at the regional
alternative schools STEM Academy and AET
Mr Jason Reese Mr Reese currently serves
as a principal chadam high school he's
served in that capacity for five years
as assistant principal there for three
years he was a teacher of special
education at the alternative school for
two years a teacher of special education
at Dan River Middle School for two years
and a teacher of special education at
Kentuck Elementary School for four years
he also served in the Navy for five
years as operation specialist surf
surface search and rescue swimmer he has
a BS in sociology and criminology he has
an mat in special education and he has
his EDS in leadership and
supervision Mr re
congratulations you got some big shoes
to fill Miss pile's done a fantastic job
for us at the Regional alternative
school I know you will too so
congratulations
okay all right I need a motion from Mr
ree please I make a motion second any
discussion roll call please Mr
Fitzgerald yes Mr Henderson yes M mer
yes Mr Moon Mr Shields yes Mr M yes Mr
dos
yes yes sir Mr dos members of school
board I'd like to also recommend this
evening the the new director of Career
and Technical education Mrs Jessica
Dalton she is currently the principal of
pctc uh she has served there for six
years uh she was assistant principal at
chadam high school for three years and
she served as a science teacher for
eight years at Dan River High School she
is a BS in biological sciences from
Virginia Tech and an Meed from Lynchburg
College in educational leadership and I
think Mrs Dalton is back back in the
court here congratulations Miss D I see
Miss Ry sitting there we wish you well
miss Ry on your next ad Adventure um
thank you for all the hard work you did
for us we really do appreciate it you've
left a mark over that that she's got a
lot to keep up with right so good luck
to both of you thank you so I need a
motion for Miss D so
move have a motion of second any other
discussion roll call Mr Fitzgerald yes
Mr Henderson yes M Mar Mr Moon yes Mr
Shi yes Mr Ms yes Mr do
yes Mr doson members of the school board
I'd like to recommend this evening for
the uh director of secretary education
Mr Brian BS Mr BS currently is the
principal of tons high school he served
in that capacity for nine years he was
assistant principal at Dan River High
School for six years he was a special
education teacher for seven years at GW
High School in Danville and he worked at
the White Oak School in Martinsville
Virginia for some time Mr BS uh has a BS
and biology he has an a a Masters in
Education and supervision and
administration from the University of
Virginia so congratulations to Mr
BS congratulations Mr
BS I have a motion I have make a motion
second have a motion to say any
discussion roll call please Mr
Fitzgerald yes Mr
yes M marck yes Mr Moon yes Mr Shields
yes Mr Mills yes Mr do yes Mr B you got
big shoes to feel too because M Craig's
been there for a long time so good good
luck I'm sure Miss Betty will help
you okay next and Mr dos members of
school board I'd like to recommend this
evening to principal chadam High School
Mrs Angela andrepont Miss andrepont
currently serves as the assistant
principal at chattam high school she
served in that capacity for six years
she was a teacher of business and
information technology for 13 years at
Dan River Middle School and she was a
teacher's aid at Southside for two years
uh she has a BBA U from a university an
MBA from a university and her Ms and
educational leadership from Radford
University so congratulations to Mrs
zont I'm sure she has an assignment at
school this evening as an assistant
principal so I see Mr reee not in this
add do we have a motion so move
second any
discussion roll call please Mr
Fitzgerald yes Mr Henderson yes m m yes
Mr Moon yes Mr Shi yes Mr Ms yes Mr do
yes that's all right yes all right
congratulations to all of y'all that are
moving we we look forward to working
with you in the coming year so thank you
very much for the
willingness um we we need to add a
couple items to the agenda before we
prove it Dr Jones I think there's a
under new business there should be a
four
three and that is you have Mr Hudson Mr
Hudson is
here Mr Hudson you don't tell us real
quick with that have you got it okay
Miss hanock can read it we're adding
10.3 approval of updated consent to
assignment for phase three of s of the
solo project and 10.4 approval of
committee to review discipline
okay I need a motion to approve the
agenda with the two additional
items so
move second any
discussion roll call Mr bald yes Mr
Henderson yes Mr yes Mr Moon yes Mr sh
yes Mr Ms yes Mr do
yes okay let me get back to my paper
here a motion for the consent
agenda
I'll make a motion we approve the
consent agenda has
presented second any discussion on any
of the four
items roll call please Mr Fitzgerald yes
Mr Henderson yes m m yes Mr Moon yes Mr
sh yes Mr Ms yes Mr do yes okay next is
public presentations the first one is
we're got to do January's character word
of the month Mr Hernandez chadam High
School
good
evening I invite you to reflect on a
quote by wartime British prime minister
Winston Churchill in which he says that
the price of greatness is responsibility
this highlights the idea that when we
have the ability to achieve great things
we also bear the responsibility to use
that power wisely in our schools this
tenant fares no differently whether
student or staff each one of us plays a
vital role in shaping the educational
environment the decisions we make both
big and small have a ripple effect on
the entire Community inside and outside
the school building but responsibility
is more than just checking off tasks on
a to-do list it's about making choices
aligned with our values and commitments
it's about doing the right thing even
when it may not yield such a smooth path
as we navigate the challenges of our
educational roles we ought to remember
that our responsible choices contribute
to a positive and nurturing learning
environment so as we continue the second
semester of this school year I invite
you to make a conscious effort every day
to be the most responsible you can be
and to follow the ideas of the late
prime minister if everyone does their
part Pennsylvania County Schools is
guaranteed to be a great place to learn
and work thank you thank
you and a February character word of the
month M ma d r
High good evening school board members
Dr Jones and guests in the audience I
have been given the opportunity to speak
on February's character word of the
month self-control a little kingdom I
possess where thoughts and feelings
dwell and very hard the task I find of
governing it well Louisa May Alcott this
quote describes the Mind perfectly she
talks about having a little kingdom
where feelings and thoughts dwell
mentioning having a having the difficult
task of governing it well this shows the
Battle of self-control having governance
over your thoughts feelings and actions
but having diffic a difficult time doing
so self-control is the act of operating
yourself in the correct way not speaking
out of turn and holding yourself
accountable for your actions
self-control takes discipline the
ability to filter your words and
thoughts and take to take appropriate
action when you become upset
self-control is something that people
lack they simply do not find use for it
believing that it is okay to act and say
whatever they want without consequences
they lack self-control and therefore the
discipline to work pay attention to
instruction and govern themselves
correctly thank you thank you Miss
Maz appreciate that M pett you have some
recognitions you need to
do I will do the first couple if I can M
I'm G do a couple of students you going
to do one I will yes sir okay that's not
what you told that's all right we'll let
him do
one like to First recognize a student um
who who stepped out and above and and
and really
U kind of Illustrated the good type of
students that we have in Pennsylvania
county I'd like to recognize this
evening uh triny Trinity
Ahern and I I don't believe she's here I
don't see is she in the audience I don't
believe she's here this evening but I
know that Dr boock is here representing
the school I and like to share with you
all what Trinity did Trinity was at lost
Trace MCAS for lunch on January 24th and
notice another student was choking she
remained calm and performed the highet
maneuver and on the third try dislodged
the obstruction and we wanted to
recognize her this evening and I'll
we'll recognize her through Dr boock in
in the building uh tomorrow sometime
this week but just like to recognize her
then I'd also like to recognize this
evening if I can Mr doll next on the
agenda we have a teacher Mrs Lauren
folks and I think I see her back here
Mrs folks would you like to come forward
would' like to get a picture I think Mrs
Dawson is here as well and and Mrs
Simpson if you all would come forward if
you would what school is she this is
Kentuck elementary school as a teacher
KCK that's that's you miss Mar Miss
Merck yeah you'd like to go down um I'm
going up because she's my niece okay
you'll break the
camera and and like to recognize her um
for her quick action and
quick thinking and good work in Saving a
student in her classroom uh she was in
class had a student who as all students
do uh had a water bottle and was playing
with the water bottle and you know how
they they put in their mouth they do a
lot of different things with it and
before she knew it I think he had sucked
the water the the top down his throat
and she performed the highet maneuver
and saved this young man in class so we
greatly appreciate your good work would
like to ask you where were you trained
or did it just come
natural good so it's our CPR classes and
then are are paying off it
helping congratulations and thank you I
think we
have C down and present this to you you
can get in picture
with
yeah
now
for
[Applause]
B
okay next we're going to recognize
Korean technical education you doing
that M Ry
okay had that wrong
too you
on
make this one good it's your last
one I'll make it short I won't do it too
long good evening Mr dos Dr Jones
Schoolboard members assistant
superintendent and guests it brings me
great pleasure to stand before you this
evening to share the proclamation for
CTE month Governor Glenn jern has
designated February 2024 as Career and
Technical educ Ed ation month in the
Commonwealth Across the Nation Career
and Technical education is celebrated in
February to recognize the achievements
and accomplishments of Career and
Technical education programs its theme
for 20 2024 celebrate today own tomorrow
provides Virginia schools and an
opportunity to showcase success stories
of excellence and communicate The
crucial role that CTE plays in preparing
a highly skilled Workforce Virginia's
economy it is important to note that
Career and Technical education programs
in Pennsylvania county are leading the
way across the region State and Country
our programs and pathways are in the
Forefront and are a model of which we
can all be proud of our students are
being successful and are performing well
I just received data last week that the
four-year graduation rate of our CTE
students was
100% and our performance indicators in
English was
98.93% math was at 97.6 one% and science
was at 95.6 eight% further our
attainment of a recognized postsecondary
credential was at
99.56% I'm extremely proud of these
direction that our programs are going
and the Forefront that these students
will continue to go in the very near
future the proclamation reads as follows
by virtue of the authority authority
vested by the Constitution of Virginia
and the governor of the Commonwealth of
Virginia there is hereby officially
recognized Career and Technical
Education Month whereas every student in
the Commonwealth should graduate from
high school prepared for success in life
and whereas Career and Technical
education allows for the exploration of
career Pathways development of workplace
skills stackable certif CER certificates
and Industry recognized credentials and
whereas Cent technical education is the
foundation of a strong well educated
Workforce that Fosters productivity and
Industry and contributes to Virginia's
leadership in the international
marketplace and whereas crew and
Technical education offers lifelong
learning opportunities that provide
individuals with marketable skills
informed career choices and expanded
postsecondary options to ensure that
higher earning potentials job
satisfaction and long-term goals for
their Futures and whereas the
cooperative and ever increasing efforts
between Career and Technical Educators
administrators and representatives of
business and industries stimulate the
growth of the Commonwealth's economy by
preparing students for careers in high
demand High skill and high wage fields
and whereas the national theme of Career
and Technical Education Month celebrate
today and tomorrow demonstrates The
crucial role that Career and Technical
education plays in readying Virginia
students for successful careers now
therefore I Glenn yunan do hereby
recognize February 2024 as Career and
Technical Education Month in our
Commonwealth of Virginia and I call this
observance to the attention of all of
our citizens thank you to the board and
our division for your continued support
of current technical education and I
wish you all very much continued success
in this
division thank you thank you m
re if you don't know what they do at
pctc stop by sometime you'll be amazed
at the stuff that's in that building
with those students do I try to get by
there once or twice a year and it's just
it's amazing what those teachers and all
do over
there next we have a request to address
the board Miss Bagley you
they were telling me be sure to talk
loud enough so I hope you can hear me
there you go members of the school board
and Dr Jones and the staff uh I have
come because I've been on a journey
lately about school I wrote this little
book and we're giving each one of y'all
and the staff one and U it's called
school days my memories of Stonewall
Jackson School of Danville Virginia 1960
to
1966 the phone rang this
afternoon and it was a student that went
there uh ahead of me and she was
remembering days of Mayday and good food
and sweet teachers and and sometimes uh
the boys getting caught with the
spitballs and and having to stand in the
corner or
whatever and she was remembering how
much fun it was for the field trips and
memorizing the multiplication tables and
taking home your report
cards and she said to me it was the
making of my
life and I appreciated that so much that
lady grew up and became a teacher at
this Stonewall Jackson School there at
the corner of Bradley Road in
Danville I've come to share it with you
just because I wanted to remind us all
of what a good um school and what our
goal is and and how we are to to educate
the Next
Generation and and to remind you that
you're doing a good
job and that we need to do even more and
I'm excited about it I was only eight
years old in
1962 so you're doing the math now
birthday coming up the big one uh in
1962 that meline muo hair came and she
um was kind of the poster child to take
the Bible out of the public
schools I really didn't hear anything
about it uh life went right on just like
it always had at Stonewall it was fun we
walked to school a mile and a mile home
and we were in the band and you know it
just life was regular no no teacher said
that they were scared of what the
government was going to do or what
changes had to be
made and that takes y'all back to 1962
also what happened then you know I think
most people didn't believe that the um
the Constitution was going to be changed
at all um they it says Congress shall
make no law respecting an establishment
of religion or prohibiting the free
exercise
thereof or Bridging the freedom of
speech or of the press or the right of
the people peaceably to assemble and to
petition the government for a redress of
grievances I don't think the adults in
the
world could imagine anything
different but things started
changing and in some school systems in
this country began to take away the
blessing for the lunch and and uh the
devotions after the pledge of allegiance
to the flag and the morning and and the
Bible teachers that came every month or
so uh they took away the recitations
that you might have in the assemblies
and and God was removed from many
schools I know at
Stonewall and in
Danville nothing
changed we went right
on and that remained a good time and I
couldn't help but think in the months
that I've been thinking about this
little
book that there was some people with
courage in
Danville and uh they just stood up for
what they knew was in the
Constitution it's a balance thing
between the left side of the phrase and
the right side of the
phrase Congress should make no law
respecting an establishment of religion
that's on one side the other side of the
phrase is or prohibiting the free
exercise
thereof both are true both are
important and yet these things started
changing and even valedictorians could
not mention God in their speeches and I
couldn't quite figure out how she could
have or he could have freedom of
speech and not be able to say what she
or he wanted to say
sometimes there were
um people that could not bring a Bible
on the
campus there are some schools I mean I
don't know I might be speaking to one
right now I don't know but I love
Pennsylvania county and my career has
been here to develop and run seaw
retreat center and to live here and I'm
a resident here and uh I I want very
much for God to bless this County and um
you
know we had to to make some
choices but as a child I didn't realize
what choices they
were I realized in writing this that
superintendent OT boner must have been a
brave man and he must have backed up
those principles and teachers because
they were free to choose or not to
choose to share something from the
scripture I know that it went past
Stonewall in junior high school we had
to memorize the Prayer of St Francis of
aisi Lord make me an instrument of thy
peace and so forth to get into the
Junior Honor Society and we sang lead on
O King Eternal at the graduation of the
eth grade nobody
complained I know at George Washington
High School principal JT Christopher got
on the intercom every morning in Home
Room
and he read a Devotion to us this is
1969 S years after meline Murray
O'Hare and he prayed for
us at GW we started our day with his
prayers things changed when he retired
the next year Personnel in anything
families businesses whatever changes a
lot of
things but you know what we never forgot
what the schools stood up to
do and I am so thankful because you know
what in the Bible there's things that we
need in science and that ruling from the
Supreme Court said that teachers could
not lead in prayer and they could not
make the children um memorize
scripture but it had gone so far past
all that so far past it and sometimes
we've missed some scientific and
historic things two things scientific
and historic principles that the Bible
has that are riches that we need
desperately that we need Columbus knew
that the world was round because of
Isaiah
40:22 he God who sits above the circle
of the
earth is the one who judges
us
and then
suppose suppose a teacher of Columbus
from Greta one of ours had had taught
him that we wouldn't still be on the
wrong side of the pond 452 years later
I'm really thankful that somebody opened
the word of God to him and then the the
physicians in the mid 1800s there was a
doctor I know that was wondering why the
the mothers that delivered the babies
why are they dying in the over in the
Midwife wing of the hospital they're
they're
living and they didn't know about germs
the Bible
did and Leviticus
5:13 it talks about cleansing the body
after disease or wounds with running
water and before that the doctors were
using the same dirty Basin of used water
to tend to the new
mothers suppose that a teacher from
hurt had taught the student who learned
that germs will and taking care of those
germs would save thousands of women
suppose we did that and Albert Einstein
that that man had have to get you to
kind of hurry up get to the end please
that man had a disappointment because he
uh he had failed to to real realized
that the Earth was was uh was trans was
not Transcendent it was expanding
universe and and he had to kind of eat
crow because he didn't realize it and
yet right there in the scripture it's
talking about the Lord stretches forth
the heavens and laid the foundations of
the earth Isaiah
425 what a great scientist Marone and
Tesla they made the radio but they were
studying the electromagnetic waves and
he fought over who really got the
patent but just think how the radio
television computer has changed our
lives a student from this County could
have done
that you
know we need very much the truths that
are in the
scriptures and the supreme court allows
the study of the word of God but not
devotionally or
evangelistically but oh to be able to
Simply make those references and say
this is what it says for the
truth I would like to offer to have
dinners paid
for for Christian Educators to come and
eat dinner hear a good speaker and then
to uh receive material that they would
be able to use references that are from
the scripture but I'd like your blessing
and I'd like for you to back up your
principles and teachers because they
need to be
free people have died to give us that
freedom and I know that Pennsylvania
county has the greatest days ahead and I
want to thank all of you for serving
this County and God bless Pennsylvania
county in the United States of America
thank you thank
you hope you enjoyed the
book Thank You
Ma'am next we have recognition of a
school board appreciation a clerk for
appreciation week I have a resolution on
to read it says whereas School Board
clerks in each locality throughout the
great Commonwealth are appointed by law
to fulfill their duties and
responsibilities and whereas Schoolboard
clerks are responsible for keeping Act
records of the meetings and the
proceedings of the school board a record
of all receipts and dispersements and a
record of all official acts and whereas
School Board clerks perform such other
duties in connection with the school
business of her his county or city as
may be required by the school board and
whereas School Board clerk maintain
frequent contact with the public
including parents employees and the
media on behalf of the school board and
superintendent and whereas the
Schoolboard clerks and Performing
performance of their duties are often
required to work extra hours attending
Schoolboard meetings and whereas the
Schoolboard clerks help to ensure
students achieve their Highest Potential
and provide an invaluable service for
Schoolboard members and
superintendent and now therefore the
vsba board of directors does hereby
recognize February the 12th through the
16th 2024 at school board clerk
Appreciation Week in the Commonwealth of
Virginia and I have a certificate from a
2024 vsba School Board Clerk of
appreciation week February 12th through
16 2024 Janet Hancock and appreciate of
your dedicated service and hard work for
public education through cons continued
services to the students of the
Commonwealth of Virginia Dr Carl patello
and Gina Patterson thank
you I know we got to stand up
I do have one
more can we do it
right and I also have one for cl
I also have one for the deputy clerk for
Miss Tracy
wle I'll tell you what I'll come down
like
[Applause]
congratulations
okay
now pea I know I oh there you are
Dr huh oh I'm sorry hang on just a
second Dr Jones has one I'm sorry I
skipped it yes sir Mr do members of the
school board uh February is also um
School Board appreciation month and I
would like to first thank you all on
behalf of our staff for the your
leadership and Direction over the past
years
um we would not be where we are as a
division without your leadership and
we've shared the results student results
staff results with you and and we spoke
with our County last week on return on
investment and and that is very high for
this Division and that speaks volume of
your leadership so we thank you for that
on behalf of staff I would like to read
this uh certificate of recognition from
the
governor Schoolboard appreciation month
whereas school board members are elected
to represent the interest of students
teachers parents and other stakeholders
and whereas school boards play a vital
role in ensuring that students across
the Commonwealth have access to high
quality rigorous education and our best
position to uphold educational
excellence in Virginia schools and
whereas School boards are the governing
B's responsible for the oversight
success and effectiveness of school
systems across the Commonwealth and and
whereas local Schoolboard members work
with parents businesses educational
professionals and other community
members to create a shared vision of
success for students and whereas these
decisions affect the present and future
lives of children and chart a path to
prepare all students to be competitive
in the local State national and Glo
Global 21st century knowledge economy
and where a Schoolboard appreciation
month acknowledges the contributions
dedication and service of Virginia's
local school board members now therefore
I Glenn yunan do hereby recognize
February
2024 as school board appreciation month
in our Commonwealth of Virginia and I
call this observant to the attention of
all of our citizens congratulations and
thank you all very much for all that you
do and let me give out first
certificates as well Tristan
Hernandez as a school board
representative and Marie
May and katrice Kohl's and haly H we all
come to you guys thank you all for all
what you
do can you stay there just for a
moment
[Applause]
now each our board MERS from School
Board
Association and the certificate reads
BBA School Board appreciation month the
heart of Education our school board 2024
Mr Calvin D
dos Mr Mark
Shields Mr Kevin
MS MR Don Moon
too
long this
Kelly Mr Willie
Fitzgerald okay now we at the paa I
always say the other Dr
Jones good evening it's hard to believe
we've gotten to February already a't
it before long it'll be
graduation what is it less than 70 days
something yeah it's not it's not far I
know right not far AR we all excited for
warmer
weather yep I know right and that
groundhog told a
lie don't believe Punks on Phil he he
does not speak truth but uh I'll go
ahead and move on with the presentation
you all say good evening to you and I
hope that you are enjoying your February
uh though it seems like we had winter a
week ago and we had spring yesterday I
anticipate summer will be here next week
so uh I'll keep moving along very
quickly just like the seasons seems to
be changing on us as quickly as they are
within seven days uh with that being
said at the January school board meeting
when we held it across the street I
shared a few items with y'all and
talking about re benchmarking jlar the
general assembly bills and all the
different things that are going on in
public
education and how it's just a roller
coaster Rod uh and it doesn't seem to be
stopping at this point so yesterday we
had our Abel meeting in Richmond and I
uh addressed yall about two proposals
that we had to the Board of Education
about the Virginia communication and
literacy assessment um which continues
to be a barrier to those that are
seeking initial lure and it's a huge
issue when you can't get teachers into
the pipeline uh when we're also faced
with teachers leaving out and then
there's a lot of vacancies um with that
being said yesterday we did approve
proposal number one which uh is a
recommendation to eliminate the Virginia
communication literacy assessment for
individuals seeking a professional
license in the endorsement areas of
early primary education prek-3
Elementary education prek 6 special
education General curriculum K12 special
education blindness and visual
impairments prek 12 and special
education def heart of hearing
prek-12 now the second proposal we
actually tabled that to do more research
on that matter uh including tracking
there are two different bills that are
out one is from De uh delegate Su and
that's House Bill 731 the other one is
from delegate Josh Thomas and that's
house bill um 284 one seeking to
eliminate vcla alog together the other
one seeking to provide endorsements to
the local superintendent uh to basically
give the way you're right so right now
we're looking at these bills either
converging or diverting or dying all
together but again the whole goal is to
ensure that we can have a continuous
pipeline of Educators with barriers that
are out of the way to ensure that all
schools are fully staffed so it's not a
burden upon you or your staff um when
you don't have the children with the
Educators that they need at the front of
the
classroom additionally we actually heard
from Dr Brian Jackson who is the vdoe
director of lure reporting about I teach
and hopefully we'll hear something
tonight yay okay so group one which
included 16 School divisions uh some of
them neighboring us like Danville city
and Campbell County uh were approved for
their program uh further group two
included 13 School divisions and they
were under a review category and that
has since changed and I'll leave it at
that for right now and then since
February 5th when that group two had
changed status there have been two
additional School divisions that have
actually submitted applications for the
it te program uh you hear mixed reviews
about it te some will tell you it's the
greatest thing ever some will tell you
that they have not had very good
experiences particularly those out of
state U nonetheless it's the goal to
make sure again that there are licensed
Educators who are going to be at the
front of the classroom working with our
children to give them the best high
quality public education that we
consistently here coming from the
general assembly and from our leadership
at the uh level enrichment now
conversely School divisions can still
participate in the vdoe grow your own
which is a registered teacher
apprenticeship program there are 28
School divisions that have actually
received grants from the vdoe the six
recently awarded um had their cost per
Apprentice per semester between $4,000
and $55,000 which is huge uh and in
superintendent region six we only have
one School Division that's currently
participating and that's actually Rono
city um bear in mind that the
participating educator preparation
programs is actually one of our
neighbors a
university um nonetheless uh there's
additional U higher education
institutions including enry and Henry
James Madison University Virginia State
University but these institutions during
their pilot program were able to provide
tuition discounts between 25 and this is
not a typo and
72% that's huge huge savings because
when you start looking at how much it
costs to become a teacher it's not a
free job and it's not free to be able to
get there in the long run so anything
that can be done to ensure that cost are
deferred to help again continue that
pipeline is awesome so shaa leblond who
is actually a director of apprenticeship
for vdoe will be attending H uh monthly
human resource meetings around the
Commonwealth and then um she is also
going to be continuing to partner with
the national Center for grow your own so
it's an opportunity to jump on board and
and help region 6 kind of move in that
direction but they're also expanding
their register apprenticeship
occupations and this is something that I
know that Mr Burton was very passionate
about on the school board but they're
looking to do apprenticeship program for
principles uh because that too is a high
need area of individuals who are willing
to lead schools uh in that within their
communities needless to say more to come
and I could continue to go on but I'm
not I will say to you I wish you a happy
Valentine's Day and again don't listen
to punksy Tony Phil he tells
lies thank you Dr
Jones
um up next is our staff and committee
reports um our budget proposal
report um as is all of you here were
where we had a budget committee meeting
at 5:30 Miss where updated all of us on
where our priorities are we have set now
our priorities for this year does
anybody have any questions uh concerning
that if not I'm just going to move on
from it because we we already did it to
budget committee and everybody was there
anybody have any questions on the death
reports five death
reports if not I'm going to move on to
the superintendent and his items yes Mr
Dawson members of the school board um
would like to remind of the board that
February 19th in the calendar had been
uh a a holiday for staff and or teachers
and students that now based on the
calendar because of the days we miss now
is a student day a school messenger
announcement will go out tomorrow night
at 6 o'clock notifying um students and
staff of that that's in the calendar um
that was approved last year next item I
have special election we have a special
election election scheduled on March the
5th uh provided information regarding uh
the precincts in your packet um any
questions about that that will be a
school day for students our principls
have worked out logistics to to make
that happen as far as parking and
students and lunch uh we feel like that
we're in good shape we will talk about
that this Thursday in our principal's
meeting again
uh but when we met in January prior to
the January election uh we felt good
about this and so I I feel like that
we're in the same place that we are were
back
then uh many of you all have been a part
of the freedom of choice ceremonies that
were held on February the 3rd at Greta
high school and tonsil House High School
they were outstanding U anyone would
like to share any comments who were
there I think it was a great event um
and I think like we had talked before
when we had had a building committee
meeting and all that during this that
transitional period I think everything
went extremely well and the Stu the
students on both sides were well
accepted and it like it gron High School
in tun high school and that's a really a
great thing Mr fiter was also there from
his school board um and all but I think
everything went extremely extremely well
with the presentation and also the
integration period that took place back
in the 60s yeah I thought it was well
attended U at both both sites that day
um and then on uh Dr Joe I just want to
thank the board for working with that
committee to make this to come about as
and it was a good program and I thank
the school board for doing this with the
committee I'd like to put a little input
with that too if you don't mind kudos to
the committee uh that that that formed
that they did an outstanding job um it
had in my opinion some class to it and
and that was appreciative on my part
thank you guys if you're listening By
Radio by TV or whatever the case might
be thank you for what you did that was
real
good and there two more planned on the
17th Dan River High School and chattam
High School 9:30 at Dan River and 1:30
at chattam high school this Saturday
yeah unfortunately I was called out of
town at the last minute but I I have
heard from a lot of people what a good
job they did and what a nice ceremony it
was so hopefully I get to see the next
one yes sir another item that I have
um we have been speaking with par about
U some type of Afterschool care across
the county uh because we're such a large
County um and we we have schools
dispersed throughout throughout the
county and the need that we're hearing
from parents um so parks and wck we're
looking
at looking to see and planning to see if
we can U Implement a pilot program next
year at Kentuck elementary school so
we're going to we would like to uh
launch a survey through school messenger
for the Kentuck Elementary School
parents want to be sure you all are
aware of our our thinking and then kind
of get approval tonight to move move
forward with that the hope would be that
if that runs very smoothly first first
can we do it first with parks and wreck
and they're they're on board with us we
just want to look look at it and plan it
well if we can do it at Kentuck can we
replicate that across the
county can I can I ask Mr doson if we
could kind of get a vote tonight for
approval just to move forward with that
so is it all right for him to move
forward I'll just get her to do a roll
call real
quick do a roll
yeah that's a consensus but I just I w't
get you I can't see hand so just go
ahead Mr fitzal yes Mr Henderson yes M
Meritt Mr Moon yes Mr Shields yes Mr
Mills yes Mr do yes you have a consensus
yes thank you thank you then the last
item that I have I placed in your your U
information tonight um some information
about our Middle School sports and Fa
facilities there there uh for you to
read through um and then I have a couple
tables there for you uh just for your
information u i I'd like to get some
input from you between now and the March
meeting on your thoughts regarding
Middle School sports and the facilities
uh we'd like to have a decision in March
as to the sports that we'd like to offer
for next school year uh we have met with
our High School principls athletic
directors Mr Scott chaired that meeting
today regarding uh their thoughts on
that we've met with Middle School
principles as well and level directors
on this since our last meeting with the
board and we'll have some firm numbers
for you all in March to get an idea of
of what you all want to see us do for
next school year I've got one question
on that I think M mer did you tell me
Dan Reva joined the junior pedmont was
that correct yes is is there a time
limit to see if the other three middle
schools need to would like to
participate in that I see the Middle
School athletic director sitting out
there he making do you know a time limit
is there a time limit when you have to
join
that would would you please find out and
and let either me or Dr Jones know if
you don't mind I'd appreciate it because
I I know one school's in it I'm I'm
thinking we probably need all of them I
know when I scheduled the events uh for
Middle School softball two years ago the
junior Pont was very eager to welcome
all of the Four County schools and I
think we probably need to do it sooner
rather than later right because I'm sure
they already plan it next year
right okay I'm sorry Dr well no go ahead
if you could just share with me your
conversation or get with Miss marck and
she can share with me your conversation
would be good thank you thank you I
think that's all I have other than if
you look at the uh upcoming
conferences uh we have the title nine
conference worksh shop on the 27th of
February uh we have the regional Forum
March the 13th and that's an appics
County High School we have the Hot Topic
conference March the 23rd in
Williamsburg and we have the virtual
conference of April the 18th That's
unleashing The Power of AI that's
something that our instructional team is
looking at I think that's something that
we will need to address in the next year
or so
that's all I have to say all right Miss
Hancock needs to know who will be going
to the southern region for is that the
one we take the arc to and have it
judged and have the mail in in the
southern region meeting um it's usually
a pretty good event I know I'm
going W yes Miss Mar is
going George is going you're
not
everybody all right thank you is that it
Dr Jones yes sir it is U there's no
unfinished business under new
business um you had a request for an
extension of waiver for rental fees for
communitybased recreation I'll remind
you last year about this time we were
doing um some baseball through the
communities that we actually wave it as
fees for those those baseball teams
which would some would consider the
middle school teams if if we go that
route um this would ex extend that
policy to other sports besides just the
baseball that we approved last year it
would give um I think is Mr Scott
here no yeah he's here oh oh he's in the
back it would you might have to help me
here a little bit but it would give the
discretion to the schools to if if they
beat certain criteria then that would
allow for the waiver correct
that's
appr still require the insurance and all
the things that they requ have been
required in the
past to to other things provided the
principal agrees with it right does
anybody have a is everybody okay with
that I'll make the motion that we do
that okay second do anybody have any
questions any concerns you clear on it
all right roll call please Mr Fitzgerald
yes Mr Henderson yes M Meritt yes Mr
Moon yes Mr Shields yes Mr Ms yes Mr do
yes um next we we need to move our
public hearing the Board of Supervisors
has set their public hearing um ahead of
what we had already planned for hours we
right now are in April we need to move
back into March the 26th I believe is
what 25th 25th Monday the 25th okay
thank you the
25th at six
o'clock I need a motion for that so move
second anybody have any concerns or
question about making the
25th roll call please Mr Fitzgerald yes
Mr Henderson yes m m yes Mr Moon yes Mr
Mr Shields yes Mr Ms yes Mr do yes um
the first item we added was a solar
agreement um I'm gonna get this wrong
probably Mr Hudson but we had the
agreement with one company and that
company now is going to be moved to
another one is that
correct
they kind of knocking out the middle man
so to speak okay so we just really need
to move that do I have a motion to to
I'll make a motion we approve it
second did I hear a
second any discussion on that nothing
really changed roll call please Mr
Fitzgerald yes Mr Henderson yes m M yes
Mr Moon yes Mr shs yes Mr Mills yes Mr
do yes and the final item is I want to
ask the board to um to approve a new
committee for for to study discipline
and how and our student handbook and the
discipline we do and I would like to ask
Mr Ms if he would to chair that
committee um and I will leave it up to
him to decide the number of members um I
just want to remind everybody if it's
more than two board members going to be
there we have to advertise as a public
meeting so um just just to remind you
that if he when he has it um does
anybody have any problems with doing
that so so he can study the discipline
and where we at
now if you need it in the form of a
motion I'll make a motion that we do
that yeah okay have a second second
anybody have any concerns or
questions you know we we have more cases
now than we used to our school our
alternative school is filling up more
than it used to and I think it's time we
look at what we do how we do it and
where we do it so I appreciate Mr Mills
coming to me and wanting to do that and
take that task on um roll call please Mr
Fitzgerald yes Mr Henderson yes M mer
yes Mr Moon yes Mr Shi yes Mr Ms yes Mr
do okay that concludes our business for
our regular meeting we will go back into
close we'll take a 5 minute break I need
all board members to come down to front
for a picture real quick please and then
we'll go back and close thank y'all have
have a good
evening